# Campy_DvN
The Campylobacter species have the potential to evolve and adapt readily in a new environment  as they are capable of recombining genetic material from their surroundings facilitated by horizontal gene transfer (HGT) (Wilson et al., 2009). HGT is described as the transmission of genetic material between bacteria other than through reproduction (vertical) and is considered to be of great importance in the evolution of prokaryotes. It allows introduction of large polymorphisms at the same time via recombination, resulting in an increase of new phenotypes such as, increased virulence and antimicrobial resistance to certain compounds, (Naik, Bhat, Chopade, & Lynch, 1994) (Aksomait, 2020). 

However, the majority of antibiotic resistance is associated with the bacterial plasmidome. Through plasmid exchange, Campylobacter species are known to have gained an increase in antibiotic resistance against, for example, tetracycline (tet(O)) and aminoglycosides (Taylor, Garner, & Allan, 1983). Plasmids carrying these specific resistance genes were only found in C. jejuni genomes, while chromosomal tet(O) has happen to be shown in both C. coli and jejuni (Pratt & Korolik, 2005) (Crespo, Olson, Altermann, Siletzky, & Kathariou, 2012). Although there are numerous studies focussing on understanding the epidemiology of these Campylobacter species, further knowledge of the plasmid content and the association with its ability to adapt fast within different animal and environmental niches is limited. Nevertheless, plasmids found in both C. coli and C. jejuni showed a high similarity indicating a certain interspecies gene flow, so called host jumps. These events have been described, but specifications, yet unknown, are of great importance to gain insight into the pathways of niche adaptation as a result of inter-/intraspecific transmission of plasmids.

In this research, Inter- and intraspecific plasmid acquisition has been analysed for both Campylobacter species, including the direction and frequency. Discrete trait ancestral state reconstruction and molecular clock analysis were carried out to describe the relatedness of plasmid types between strains of both species. The molecular clock is the term for the rate of molecular evolution, assuming that there is a linear correlation between time and the genetic distance between species. The existence of such an evolutionary rate has been discovered in the early ’60, during research of protein changes in fossils (Zuckerkandl & Pauling, 1962). Molecular clock calibration has been done based on chromosomal C. coli sequenced data obtained from the QUADRAM Institute. These sequenced isolates were taken over a time span of 50 years allowing a reliable determination. Ancestral state reconstruction allows modelling of events, such as host jumps, by maximizing the probability of the data, given by the observed phenotypes. In other words relative to this study, this method assumes that the ancestral states (previous hosts of a certain plasmid type) are the ones statistically most likely, based on given metadata (isolation dates, molecular clock rate and presence/absence of a plasmid type). 


